Hello English learners and welcome to another lesson with English pod my name is Marco and I'm
Erica and today we're bringing you a great Christmas lesson. That's right we've got a lot of
Christmas vocabulary in today's lesson for you. Yeah it's almost Christmas time so everyone is
getting into the spirit especially here at English pod so we're gonna teach you a little bit more
about this. Speaking of the spirit I think it's time for us to look at our vocabulary preview.
The vocabulary preview. So in this part of our show we'll look at some key language in the
dialogue that you'll need to know to understand the dialogue and actually today we only have one word
Eggnog Eggnog Eggnog EGG and OG Eggnog So Eggnog is a really popular Christmas drink.
It's a traditional Christmas drink. Right what is it made of? Eggs, cream, sugar and usually rum.
Rum. Oh so it has alcohol. Yeah normally it has alcohol. Okay all right that's interesting.
There's actually a drink very similar to this in chili. Really? Yep they call it monkey tail.
So in Spanish that would be gualade mono. Very nice. Yeah so it's actually really really good
men it's really similar to Eggnog. Okay well with that in mind let's take a listen to our dialogue
for the first time.
I hate working on Christmas Eve. Whoa get a load of this guy coming central I think we got our
ourselves a situation here last incident registration please have you been drinking tonight sir?
I had one or two glasses of eggnog but nothing else. Step out of the vehicle please. Sir what
do you have in the back? Just a few Christmas gifts. Two's the season after all. Don't take that
tone with me. Do you have an invoice for these items? Oh no I make these in my workshop and the north
you are under arrest sir you have the right to remain silent you better not power you better not cry.
Anything you say can and we'll be used against you you have the right to an attorney if you can't
afford one the state will appoint one for you. Do you understand these rights that have just been
read to you? You can't take me to jail or in about my sleigh it's Christmas Eve. I have
present still ever. We're the whole. Prens are cancer. Good health.
Well I did not see that one coming. That was interesting Santa Claus is being taken to jail.
What's going to happen next Marco? I don't know. We'll talk about that in a little while let's take a
look at some language from this dialogue. Language takeaway. So the first word that we have on
our language takeaway today is vehicle. Vehicle. Vehicle. Vehicle. So this is a vehicle.
And this is a vehicle.
So all of those are vehicles. Now I thought that a vehicle was a car specifically.
No any machine that carries people from one place to another is a vehicle. Great. All right let's
take a look now at our second word attorney attorney attorney. So what is an attorney?
Alloyer. Well that's simple enough. Yeah. Alloyer. Let's move to our third word which is
a point. A point. A point. A point. So a point means choose. Okay so the president of a country
might appoint his chief of staff. Right or I can appoint my attorney. True. So can you
appoint a thing? Can I appoint my coffee cup? No no you only use it for people. You choose someone.
Okay I'll choose something. So I appoint someone. Exactly. All right let's move to our final word.
Slay. Slay. Slay. Slay. So Erica you're from Canada you can tell us about slays. All right
a slay is a vehicle that is pulled by a horse and travels over snow or ice. Okay so you know like
Santa drives a sleigh. He drives a sleigh. So do you drive a sleigh or ride a sleigh? Good question.
Well the song says you ride in a one horse opens like. Right okay. Well you know what I think it's
time for us to look at some interesting phrases that we found in this dialogue so let's look at
putting it together. Put it together. Today I'm putting it together we have two great phrases for you
and let's take a look at the first one. Step out. Step out. Step out. So step out means to
go out of a place for a short period of time. Right so in our dialogue for example the police
officer said step out of the vehicle. Get out of your vehicle. You can also say step out of the office.
You can say I just stepped out of the shower. Right now we can also say step in. It's the opposite.
The opposite right. I can ask Marco step into my office for a moment. Oh okay so that's
step out and step in. Great phrases. Let's take a look at our final phrase. Get a load of.
Get a load of. Get a load of. So when I say get a load of something I mean look at. Right. Right.
Look at this guy. Get a load of this guy. Yeah that's what we heard in the dialogue. Now you can use
this phrase in a number of different ways and we have some examples for you. Example one.
Get a load of this. A war is started in an article. Example two. Get a load of that house. It's so big.
Example three. Get a load of him. He's wearing a pink suit.
Okay I think we've covered a lot of interesting words and phrases so we are ready to listen
to our dialogue a second time but this time it's going to be a little bit slower so we can pick up
all these great words. I hate working on Christmas Eve. Whoa get a load of this guy. Come in central.
I think we got ourselves a situation here. License and registration please. Have you been drink
in tonight's serve? I had one or two. License of Agnog but nothing else. Step out of the vehicle please.
Sir what's you having the back? Just a few Christmas gifts. Just the season after all.
Don't take that tone with me. Do you have an invoice for these items?
No I make these in my workshop in the north pole. You are under arrest sir. You have the right
to remain silent. You better not pout. You better not cry. Anything you say can and will be used
against you. You have the right to an attorney. If you cannot afford one the state will appoint
one for you. Do you understand all these rights that have just been read to you? You can't take
me to jail. What about my sleigh? It's Christmas Eve. I have presents to deliver. Rudolph,
Prancer, dancer, get help. Okay so we noticed some really great words and phrases and with this now
we can start with some fluency builder. Fluency builder. Today on fluency builder we have two
great phrases that you can use to sound a little bit more natural when you speak. That's right.
Our first phrase you can use if you want to say don't speak to me like that.
Don't take that tone with me. Don't take that tone with me.
So you often hear this phrase coming out of the mouth of a mother or a father.
Yeah, when their children are maybe talking back. Yeah. Don't take that tone with me,
young man. I used to get that a lot. Really? Sorry about that. Okay our second phrase we use it
when we have a problem. The phrase we heard in the dialogue was I think we've got ourselves the
situation here. Let's listen to another example. Houston, we've got ourselves a situation here.
Houston, we've got ourselves a situation here. Sometimes I use this phrase when I want to tell
my boss that I have a problem. I might say boss, I've got a bit of a situation. Can you help me with it?
Okay. Yeah. I have a little bit of a problem. Yeah. Useful phrases, hey?
Really useful phrases. Great stuff. So now we can listen to our dialogue a final time.
And this time we can understand everything that's in it.
I hate working on Christmas Eve. Whoa, get a load of this guy coming central. I think we got
ourselves a situation here.
Come on, come on, come on.
Last incident of registration, please. Have you been drinking tonight, sir?
I had one or two glasses of haynog, but nothing else. Step out of the vehicle, please. Sir,
what do you have in the back? Just a few Christmas gifts. Tis the season after all.
Don't take that tone with me. Do you have an invoice for these items?
Oh, no. I make these in my workshop and the North Pole. You are under arrest, sir. You have
the right to remain silent. You better not power, you better not cry. Anything you say can,
and we'll be used against you. You have the right to an attorney. If you can't afford one,
the state will appoint one for you. Do you understand these rights that have just been read to you?
You can't take me to jail or about my sleigh. It's Christmas Eve.
I have presents to deliver. Ruhal, prancer, dancer. Good help.
So when the police officer was arresting Santa Claus, he said something a little bit strange, hey.
Yeah, you said you better not pout, you better not cry. Now are those part of the normal
rights that a police officer reads? No, no. They're not part of the normal rights,
but it's actually from a Christmas song, so let's listen to how it goes in the song.
I'm pretty happy we had a song to play there instead of us having the same.
But that's great because if the children cry or if they are not good kids,
then Santa Claus will not give them presents. Uh-oh. So that's why. Okay, listeners. I hope that
you're not pouting. I hope you're not crying, but it's time for us to go. So be sure to go to our
website at EnglishPod.com and be sure to leave all your questions in comments and maybe
some of your Christmas stories. All right, thanks for listening and until next time. Bye bye.